Continuing with the idea of cleaning up our dimension values,
we're going to take a look at the Default page setting.
The Default page setting will basically work like
a rewrite filter but it surfaced as a view setting instead of a filter.
We're going to use it primarily to rewrite that forward slash that shows up by default
in most of our Google Analytics views to a more meaningful value for the homepage.
In some cases the setting will be used to consolidate two variations of the homepage URL.
If we going into the Google Analytics demo account,
we'll see a homepage that has a meaningful name.
This is what we want.
This, however, does not occur by default on Google Analytics.
This is generated from a setting,
the Default page setting.
Usually, when we go into Google Analytics,
what we see as a top page or one of the top pages is just the forward slash.
That corresponds to the homepage but it's not ideal for
our own reporting and it's certainly not ideal when we're communicating with others.
So, how did we rewrite this forward slash to a more meaningful value.
This is where the Default page setting comes in.
We're back in the Test View in our Org Test account.
If we click into View Settings,
we see the Default page setting.
This is where we can specify how we want the forward slash to be rewritten.
If we want to rewrite the forward slash as
forward slash home all we have to enter is home,
without the forward slash.
There are some additional considerations to the Default page though.
One consideration is, if your homepage appears two different ways.
If you're not rewriting the Default page on the server to just the domain name,
your homepage may appear in Google Analytics as both
forward slash and something like index.php or default.aspx.
In that case, we're not just using the Default page value to rewrite
the forward slash but we're rewriting
the forward slash to match the other variation of the homepage that appears.
So, in this case,
where we have forward slash forward and slash index.php referring to the same page,
we'll want to use index.php for the Default page.
So, instead of home,
the Default page is determined for us.
Once we did that,
the forward slash and index.php would be rolled up into a single value.
Now, there is a significant caveat to the Default page.
The value that we specify for our Default page is
added to all page dimensions that end with forward slash,
not just forward slash on its own.
If we had a page dimensions such as services
forward slash and we added home as the Default page,
services forward slash would be rewritten to services forward slash home.
If we want it to just rewrite the stand alone forward slash to forward slash home,
we would need to use a view filter,
and again, we would take advantage of regular expressions.
Under Filters we could click New Filter.
Call this filter Rewrite forward slash to forward slash home,
Custom, Search and Replace,
Filter Field, Request URI.
We're going to start with the forward slash
and we're going to use Regex to say I don't want
to match anything that has any characters before the forward slash,
so beginning of string anchor,
and nothing after the forward slash,
end of string anchors.
So, we're only matching the forward slash.
Now, we could specify forward slash home as the Replace String and save the filter,
check it out in the Test View,
apply it to the Main View of it's looking good in the test after a little while.
Let's consider another challenge that we sometimes have with the page dimension.
Let's say that we have the same pages appearing sometimes
without a forward slash and sometimes with a forward slash.
How would we consolidate these so they look like this?
In this case, we're going to use an advanced filter for extraction
and rewrite and we'll take advantage of regular expressions again.
Click into Filters, Add Filter,
call this filter Strip
from end of Page, Custom.
Again, we're going to do an advanced filter,
so we can extract and output.
We're going to start with
Request URI and we know we're
trying to match the page dimensions that end with a forward slash,
so forward slash end of string anchor.
We want to match and pull in anything that precedes the final forward slash.
So, we're going to start with a dot,
meaning any single character and regular expression notation.
We're going to use the plus sign quantifier,
which means match one or more of the proceeding character,
which in this case is any character.
Finally, we're going to wrap that plus sign.
So, it becomes a grouping that we can extract.
We're going to say Output To,
Request URI and the advanced filter notation for pulling
in a matching group from Field A or Field B,
which in this case does not mean end of string anchor, dollar sign A1.
This means pull in the first matching group from Field A.
So, this is a little bit involved but you see how regular expressions allow us to
cleanly solve the problem and get all of our URLs consolidated.